Project Summary
My project is in part a Raspberry Pi server. This server joins my laptop with an offsite storage device. I can backup all the files on my laptop onto HardDrives connected to the Raspberry Pi. The purpose of this project is an offline server for projects and backups; there is no knowing where your computer’s information is going if you use something like google backup, this allows me to securely transfer information with encryptions. Through this project, I have learned how to use tools including rsync(copies files)¸SSH(sends files), and git(organizes files). This project improves my knowledge of linux filesystems, networking file transport protocols, and most importantly git and servers hosting git. I came up with this idea because of my need for a backup system for my computer. Some other projects I have considered using an arduino or other electrical devices. I think that I could have pushed myself more to challenge myself(including adding a real “computer” server(p.s. I am starting to integrate this now)).  
Technical summary
By using rsync -rntvzs --progress and along with an SSH server, I am able to backup whole folders to an offsite server through a local network. The most important thing I did for  this project was creating the server; I used a 32gb sd card connected to a raspberry pi for the server. I chose a sd card size that could hold my home directory. Though this server is not open to the public you can, on local networks, connect and upload files directly to the ssd by specifying the out path using [username on the server]@[ip of the server]:~/backup. This is the basics of ssh and connecting to computers through the internet. The most helpful place for research is definitely the manual for rsync; by typing in man rsync you can see how to use every function and option rsync has to offer.


Process Summary
I started with my laptop(linux), a raspberry pi and knowledge of linux. The first thing I did is format the sd card and then put a raspbian os onto it. I then set a static IP so that I know where the raspberry pi is on the network at all times. Finally, I opened the ssh port on the raspberry pi using openssh allowing me to use rsync on my computer with it. Rsync came standard with my OS, so I didn’t need to install it. The highest high is when it worked, and I connected to the raspberry pi and saw and read the files on it. The lowest low was when my laptop died mid way through the upload. I got stuck when I was making the bootable drive, because I wanted to do it on linux, and I had to do a lot of research on how to do it. I kind of gave up and did it with rufus. I also wanted to learn how to mount usb drives and it was really cool. The thing I am most proud of is the updated version that allows me to connect to the raspberry pi through the internet.

If I were to continue on this project, the next steps would be to upgrade the server to a stronger machine (i have purchased and built one already). Also, I plan to include a website, and a git server to this server. 

